# Project Epitaph
Project Epitaph is a repository of information for individual archival and duplication that can be of use before, during, and after the end of civilization.

## Reasoning
We live in an unprecedented age of progress and growth and by nearly all metrics it would seem we are not responsible enough at scale to handle it. We see global instability in our systems be them political, scientific, technological, and perhaps most concerning ecological which would suggest to anyone with data literacy that we are struggling to maintain civilization. Idealistic people have many solutions such as migration to space, or underground, but history, simulation, and statistical analysis does not support that the major proposed solutions are likely viable before a major collapse occurs. Human growth is not a difficult metric to grasp and has very simple demands that are not being easily met such as food supply, petroleum production, or our ability to manage our waste or sustain our ecosystems. Civil unrest, ecological destruction, global warming, over population, and resource management all threaten to destabilize a system that is likely far less resilient than we believe. The nature of how our way of life will change is unclear but it does not seem unclear that the world as we know it is soon to change drastically in the next few generations, as such the question of a collapse is not if but when. While we still have time and the means each of us can in our own way perform a task which will give great value to our lives and may potentially give incalculable value to future humans, namely to preserve for them the information that our current civilization has amassed in the hopes that whatever world future humans must inhabit they will have as much information as possible to work with.

Many of us have not lived in a world that requires us to fight for resources and the recent global pandemic of 2020 showcased that we are likely not up to the challenge of a real epidemic on par with the black death or the Spanish flu, so our best hope is not to ensure the fate of our major works of art and science to any large institution but to entrust it as we always have to individuals distributing it in the hope that one of the many redundant copies survive.

## Goal
The goal of this repository is to provide works across various disciplines that should be archived and replicated such that they will survive a collapse of civilization as we currently know it. They represent a small but carefully selected corpus of critical media which each individual can reliably secure and save in their own way in the hopes that among the many copies that exist one might survive the various scenarios which might play out.

This particular repository will contain only things which are legally allowed and will itemize all thing which do not, as well as notes and guides on how best to go about preservation efforts. It is designed in a way that it can be checked out with a revision system like git and then filled in to be committed to a personal revision system or to be uploaded to a durable storage solution of your choosing. It also provides a convenient archival and tagging approach that can be explored and enjoyed personally in the event you are lucky enough not to be responsible for preserving it through a societal collapse.

## Structure
The structure of this archive will mimic the structure of institutions for higher education including the study of liberal arts and sciences classified as major areas of study. Science, Mathematics, and Engineering will be roughly separate from Art, Music, and Literature. The system will not be perfect and some things like Social Sciences might overlap between the two, and some works of art might have science as their underpinning and vice versa but the goal is to produce a structure that can be searched by hand without the ready assistance of tools, meaning that there should be a limited depth and a wide and flat hierarchy at the top.

## Fidelity
It is unlikely that compression or encryption mechanisms will be easily accessible during a collapse and as such items should be stored in universally accessible formats such as plain text whenever possible, with formats such as Markdown or HTML being acceptable as the core information is still encoded as plain text and can be parsed as such with some minor effort. In the event that works must be preserved or are only available in specialized formatting such as epub, mp3, or jpg they should come with full and cross platform copies of the utilities required to interpret them, ideally with source code and compilers.

It is unclear what mechanisms or mediums of retrieval might survive such as magnetic, optical, flash, or solid state storage and as such we should strive to replicate the entire dataset across as many mediums as possible for each individual acting as archivist. In those cases mechanisms that might be required should accompany the media such as USB adapters, CD/DVD readers, and SATA/NVME to USB adapters should be procured and stored with the dataset as an extra measure of precaution.

## Selection
The items in this archive have been carefully selected based on their criticality to both the fundamental elements of our society as well as the demands of a theoretical post-collapse society meaning that some works are excluded because they could post a danger to future civilizations and some works are included because they provide fundamental concepts about the world such as wood working and germ theory. 

I encourage archivists to consider carefully anything they add beyond the itemized list but it is a moral imperative for each to put personal beliefs aside for the purpose of this task and perform their due diligence. Works selected for inclusion are done so based on generations of consensus in the hope that this metric showcases a particularly unique value or insight into our condition and improves our species, not because individuals or particular generations find value in them but because a large group of people across multiple time periods considered them critical and of preservation for our use. It is in their honor and sacrifice that we do the same, regardless of our personal feelings.

## Archivists
Each person is responsible for their own dataset and their own backup methodology but each person should be mindful of how, where, and why they store this data. Many storage providers will likely not survive and may consider the duplication of material against their usage policy or against a particular nations laws or regulations. As such the dataset is to be stored locally by each archivist regardless of if they replicate it to an external provider. Each archivist is expected to be respectful, helpful, and supportive because it is in the interest of our species that this dataset be gathered and replicated by as many people as possible, a task which is tedious and not easily achieved and as such should be encouraged, promoted, and commended. Considering this it should be customary that your particular dataset should store in its root a single text file containing the entirety of whatever message you find best to tell your story, such that if only a few of these survive the successful dataset will award its archivist memorandum much the same way we now know the works of antiquity through the diligent efforts of scribes and scholars who copied the works across generations for their preservation, leaving little more than names and dates to reward them.

## NOTES

All folders are in upper case so that they are filesystem agnostic
